rewrite governance section (#111)
stakewise/stakewise-docs: docs/docs/governance/stakewise-dao.mdx

---
title: StakeWise DAO
description: Learn about StakeWise DAO governance, the role of the community, and how protocol parameters are decided.
---

# StakeWise DAO

> The StakeWise DAO is the collective of SWISE holders that steers the protocol. Because community feedback drives adoption, the power to decide how StakeWise evolves rests in the hands of its stakers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The StakeWise DAO is the collective of SWISE holders that steers the protocol. Because community feedback drives development, the power to decide how StakeWise evolves rests in the hands of its token owners.
```

## Role of the DAO

The DAO is responsible for the key decisions that shape how StakeWise operates:

> - fees paid by stakers

Reviewer: osETH fees paid by stakers

> - commissions paid to node operators

Reviewer: удалить, ДАО не решает

> - onboarding and offboarding of oracles and node operators

Reviewer: операторов не онбордим через дао

> - the design of liquidity mining campaigns

Reviewer: Management of the protocol's Treasury

> - whitelisting of gauge contracts

Reviewer: убрать

> - payout triggers for the Insurance Fund

Reviewer: какой иншуранс фанд?
